In this lesson, we continue developing the launcher and we have 2 tasks. The first one is to calculate the
direction along which we want to launch the cartridge. And the second is to directly force the cartridge
to move along this direction. In fact, we already have most of the code.
Let's go to the rifle class and copy the code related to trace data and make hit.
We insert them into the make shot function of the launcher class. Let me remind you that we get two points in the trace start and trace end space,
depending on the position of our camera. After that, we make a logical trace and
all the information about whether we got somewhere or not gets into the HitResult variable . Let's calculate the vector
along which we need to launch the projectile. To do this, we will create two additional local variables.
The first one will be called EndPoint. We will determine this point depending on whether
we got somewhere or not. Let's write the value of this variable through the ternary operator.
If the HitResult.bBlockingHit variable is true,
then EndPoint will take the HitResult.ImpactPoint value.
If HitResult.bBlockingHit = false, that is, for example, we shot somewhere
in the sky, then we can just take the TraceEnd point.
We know the end point. We know the starting point. The starting point is the position of the socket in space.
Therefore, we can define a vector that is calculated as the end point minus the start point.
Let's write this EndPoint - GetMuzzleWorldLocation ().
We only need to know the direction. Let's make this vector a unit. Let's normalize it using
the GetSafeNormal function. Now we need to pass this vector to our projectile class
so that it knows which direction it needs to move along. In the previous lesson, we deferred the
actor spawning through the UGameplayStatics class, and in the first section we actually used
GetWorld for this purpose. In general, there is no difference. These functions do exactly
the same thing, but let's rewrite it through the UWorld function, because it returns a pointer to a
specific class, and the UGameplayStatics function returns a pointer to an actor, so we would do one
more additional cast. We call the template function SpawnActorDeffered. We specify our STUProjectile class
as a template parameter and this function has only two parameters: this is the class and the spawn transform.
We don't need a pointer to world. Let's also change the second function,
which ends spawn. Before that, we check: if the pointer to the created actor is non-zero,
then we complete the spawning of the actor. We call the FinishSpawning function
and pass the spawn transform into it. Remove the UGameplayStatics function and remove the
header file. We rewrote the deferred spawn as a pointer to the game world.
The meaning has not changed in any way. Let's pass the direction vector to the projectile actor. For this we
need an additional function. It does not exist yet. Let's call it SetShotDirection
and pass direction to it. This is where the logic in the launcher class ends for today.
Let's go to the projectile class and start by adding this SetShotDirection function.
It will have one parameter - this is the direction vector. We have to write this
vector to a local variable. We'll name it ShotDirection and assign a function parameter to it.
Create a variable in the private section.
Only the projectile class will have access to it.
We have transmitted the direction of movement along which our projectile will move.
It remains to figure out how, in fact, he will move. It is quite simple to implement movement
along a vector. In the Tick function, you can change the position of the actor by some delta.
We could do it on our own and even within the framework of this course, but since we
are using UE for development, let's take full advantage of it.
We will introduce you to the new component. It's called UProjectileMovementComponent.
This component changes the position of the actor to Tick, depending on the parameters configured in it.
We have already considered one component of movement, this UCharacterMovementComponent. We can say
that they are from the same family, because they are able to change the position in space of other actors.
We name our component MovementComponent and add it to the top of the forward declaration of the component class.
This component has many different capabilities. You can make, for example, a
homing missile or, for example, specify the number of bounces when colliding with
other objects. We will consider the simplest movement with a constant speed.
Go to the .cpp file projectile. Add the header file for this component
and create the component in the class constructor.
The component is purely logical and therefore we don't need to attach it. All that remains for us to do is
specify the velocity vector for this component. Move to the BeginPla function. Add check.
The variable that is responsible for the velocity is called velocity
and the velocity of our component of motion will be calculated as, the unit vector of the direction of motion
multiplied by some number, the norm - by the velocity value itself. So we take the ShotDirection vector
and multiply it by the value of the motion component variable called InitialSpeed.
All in all, we could create a new property. Calling it InitialSpeed, but that would be a little inconsistent
because it is assumed that all motion information should be stored
in the motion component. If the developers see the motion component, then they may not be
aware that you have some additional variable to determine the speed.
Initially, they will try to change the speed in this particular component.
Open up blueprint projectile. A motion component has been created. The details panel contains all its properties.
The InitialSpeed ​​variable is zero by default. Let's check how it works.
We start shooting and our cartridge just falls out of the barrel. This is logical, because the speed is 0.
Let's change it to some value, for example, 2000. Compile. Click play.
And the cartridge flew. If anyone remembers physics lessons at school, then it is like throwing a body at
an angle to the horizon: along the X and Y coordinates, the body moves uniformly in a straight line, and along the Z axis it moves with the
acceleration of free fall. We can change this property in the motion component.
Go to the details panel and look for the projectile gravity scale variable in the search.
This variable is multiplied by the standard value of the acceleration due to gravity, so we
can put 0 and our car will move without gravity to the ground. We launch. We shoot.
And if our trace determines that we hit some object, then the bullet flies to this point.
And if we don't hit anywhere, then the bullet just flies to the end point of trace.
We also have one drawback. Our actors are not removed. If we look at the world outlier,
the number of actors is growing. Because of this behavior, we may have problems with memory in the future,
Therefore, we add a call to the SetLifeSpan function on BeginPlay.
It will remove this actor by timer. Let's do this in five seconds.
Also, the parameters that we set in the blueprint can be written in C ++ code. In this case, this is not so important,
but on the other hand, it can be useful if you work through git, to your comrades instantly
in version control will see what parameters you expect for this component, and to see
who configured it as a blueprint, we will have to open editor ... Set the InitialSpeed ​​and ProjectileGravityScale variables.
Also, if you want to increase the reliability of your code, then on BeginPlay you can
check these parameters. On InitialSpeed, for example, that it is not zero,
and on ProjectileGravityScale that it is zero. Thus, if someone changes the values ​​in the blueprint,
then you will notify this person that such values ​​of these parameters were not assumed.